## Your First Program

Traditionally the first program you write in any programming language is called a “Hello World” program – a program that simply outputs Hello World to your terminal. Let's write one using Go.

First create a new folder where we can store our program. The installer you used in chapter 1 created a folder in your home directory named Go. Create a folder named ~/Go/src/golang-book/chapter2. (Where ~ means your home directory) From the terminal you can do this by entering the following commands:

    mkdir Go/src/golang-book
    mkdir Go/src/golang-book/chapter2

Using your text editor type in the following:

    package main

    import "fmt"

    // this is a comment

    func main() {
        fmt.Println("Hello World")
    }

Make sure your file is identical to what is shown here and save it as main.go in the folder we just created. Open up a new terminal and type in the following:

    cd Go/src/golang-book/chapter2
    go run main.go

You should see Hello World displayed in your terminal. The go run command takes the subsequent files (separated by spaces), compiles them into an executable saved in a temporary directory and then runs the program. If you didn't see Hello World displayed you may have made a mistake when typing in the program. The Go compiler will give you hints about where the mistake lies. Like most compilers, the Go compiler is extremely pedantic and has no tolerance for mistakes. 

## links
   * [preface](<preface.md>)
   * pre: [Getting Started](<01.0.md>)
   * next: [How to Read a Go Program](<02.1.md>)