## Types

In the last chapter we used the data type string to store Hello World. Data types categorize a set of related values, describe the operations that can be done on them and define the way they are stored. Since types can be a difficult concept to grasp we will look at them from a couple different perspectives before we see how they are implemented in Go.

Philosophers sometimes make a distinction between types and tokens. For example suppose you have a dog named Max. Max is the token (a particular instance or member) and dog is the type (the general concept). “Dog” or “dogness” describes a set of properties that all dogs have in common. Although oversimplistic we might reason like this: All dogs have 4 legs, Max is a dog, therefore Max has 4 legs. Types in programming languages work in a similar way: All strings have a length, x is a string, therefore x has a length.

In mathematics we often talk about sets. For example: ℝ (the set of all real numbers) or ℕ (the set of all natural numbers). Each member of these sets shares properties with all the other members of the set. For example all natural numbers are associative: “for all natural numbers a, b, and c, a + (b + c) = (a + b) + c and a × (b × c) = (a × b) × c.” In this way sets are similar to types in programming languages since all the values of a particular type share certain properties.

Go is a statically typed programming language. This means that variables always have a specific type and that type cannot change. Static typing may seem cumbersome at first. You'll spend a large amount of your time just trying to fix your program so that it finally compiles. But types help us reason about what our program is doing and catch a wide variety of common mistakes.

Go comes with several built-in data types which we will now look at in more detail.

## links
   * [preface](<preface.md>)
   * pre: [How to Read a Go Program](<02.1.md>)
   * next: [Numbers](<03.1.md>)