## Numbers

Go has several different types to represent numbers. Generally we split numbers into two different kinds: integers and floating-point numbers.

### Integers

Integers – like their mathematical counterpart – are numbers without a decimal component. (…, -3, -2, -1, 0, 1, …) Unlike the base-10 decimal system we use to represent numbers, computers use a base-2 binary system.

Our system is made up of 10 different digits. Once we've exhausted our available digits we represent larger numbers by using 2 (then 3, 4, 5, …) digits put next to each other. For example the number after 9 is 10, the number after 99 is 100 and so on. Computers do the same, but they only have 2 digits instead of 10. So counting looks like this: 0, 1, 10, 11, 100, 101, 110, 111 and so on. The other difference between the number system we use and the one computers use is that all of the integer types have a definite size. They only have room for a certain number of digits. So a 4 bit integer might look like this: 0000, 0001, 0010, 0011, 0100. Eventually we run out of space and most computers just wrap around to the beginning. (Which can result in some very strange behavior)

Go's integer types are: `uint8`, `uint16`, `uint32`, `uint64`, `int8`, `int16`, `int32` and `int64`. 8, 16, 32 and 64 tell us how many bits each of the types use. `uint` means “unsigned integer” while `int` means “signed integer”. Unsigned integers only contain positive numbers (or zero). In addition there two alias types: `byte` which is the same as `uint8` and `rune` which is the same as `int32`. Bytes are an extremely common unit of measurement used on computers (1 byte = 8 bits, 1024 bytes = 1 kilobyte, 1024 kilobytes = 1 megabyte, …) and therefore Go's `byte` data type is often used in the definition of other types. There are also 3 machine dependent integer types: `uint`, `int` and `uintptr`. They are machine dependent because their size depends on the type of architecture you are using.

Generally if you are working with integers you should just use the `int` type.
Floating Point Numbers

Floating point numbers are numbers that contain a decimal component (real numbers). (1.234, 123.4, 0.00001234, 12340000) Their actual representation on a computer is fairly complicated and not really necessary in order to know how to use them. So for now we need only keep the following in mind:

 * Floating point numbers are inexact. Occasionally it is not possible to represent a number. For example computing `1.01 - 0.99` results in `0.020000000000000018` – A number extremely close to what we would expect, but not exactly the same.

 * Like integers floating point numbers have a certain size (32 bit or 64 bit). Using a larger sized floating point number increases it's precision. (how many digits it can represent)

 * In addition to numbers there are several other values which can be represented: “not a number” (`NaN`, for things like `0/0`) and positive and negative infinity. (`+∞` and `−∞`)

Go has two floating point types: `float32` and `float64` (also often referred to as single precision and double precision respectively) as well as two additional types for representing complex numbers (numbers with imaginary parts): `complex64` and `complex128`. Generally we should stick with `float64` when working with floating point numbers.
Example

Let's write an example program using numbers. First create a folder called `chapter3` and make a `main.go` file containing the following:

    package main

    import "fmt"

    func main() {
        fmt.Println("1 + 1 =", 1 + 1)
    }

If you run the program and you should see this:

    $ go run main.go
    1 + 1 = 2

Notice that this program is very similar to the program we wrote in chapter 2. It contains the same package line, the same import line, the same function declaration and uses the same `Println` function. This time instead of printing the string `Hello World` we print the string `1 + 1 =` followed by the result of the expression `1 + 1`. This expression is made up of three parts: the numeric literal `1` (which is of type `int`), the `+` operator (which represents addition) and another numeric literal `1`. Let's try the same thing using floating point numbers:

        fmt.Println("1 + 1 =", 1.0 + 1.0)

Notice that we use the `.0` to tell Go that this is a floating point number instead of an integer. Running this program will give you the same result as before.

In addition to addition Go has several other operators:
<table border="1">
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td class="code">+</td>
			<td>addition</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td class="code">-</td>
			<td>subtraction</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td class="code">*</td>
			<td>multiplication</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td class="code">/</td>
			<td>division</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td class="code">%</td>
			<td>remainder</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

## links
   * [preface](<preface.md>)
   * pre: [Types](<03.0.md>)
   * next: [Strings](<03.2.md>)