## Strings

As we saw in chapter 2 a string is a sequence of characters with a definite length used to represent text. Go strings are made up of individual bytes, usually one for each character. (Characters from other languages like Chinese are represented by more than one byte)

String literals can be created using double quotes `"Hello World"` or back ticks ``Hello World``. The difference between these is that double quoted strings cannot contain newlines and they allow special escape sequences. For example `\n` gets replaced with a newline and `\t` gets replaced with a tab character.

Several common operations on strings include finding the length of a string: `len("Hello World")`, accessing an individual character in the string: `"Hello World"[1]`, and concatenating two strings together: `"Hello " + "World"`. Let's modify the program we created earlier to test these out:

    package main

    import "fmt"

    func main() {
        fmt.Println(len("Hello World"))
        fmt.Println("Hello World"[1])
        fmt.Println("Hello " + "World")
    }

A few things to notice:

 * A space is also considered a character, so the string's length is 11 not 10 and the 3rd line has `"Hello "` instead of `"Hello"`.

 * Strings are “indexed” starting at 0 not 1. `[1]` gives you the 2nd element not the 1st. Also notice that you see `101` instead of `e` when you run this program. This is because the character is represented by a byte (remember a byte is an integer).

 * One way to think about indexing would be to show it like this instead: `"Hello World"1`. You'd read that as “The string Hello World sub 1,” “The string Hello World at 1” or “The second character of the string Hello World”.

 * Concatenation uses the same symbol as addition. The Go compiler figures out what to do based on the types of the arguments. Since both sides of the `+` are strings the compiler assumes you mean concatenation and not addition. (Addition is meaningless for strings)

## links
   * [preface](<preface.md>)
   * pre: [Numbers](<03.1.md>)
   * next: [Booleans](<03.3.md>)